README.md, before:

# FWU Keycloak extensions

[![Test and deploy](https://github.com/FWU-DE/fwu-kc-extensions/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/FWU-DE/fwu-kc-extensions/actions/workflows/main.yaml)

This Java x Maven project holds the Keycloak extensions for customizations of the [FWU](https://fwu.de/) Keycloak.
The goal of these extensions are to make the authentication more secure and anonymous.

## Setup for testing

Run the script `start_for_testing.sh` in the root directory to start the Keycloak.

This will start a Keycloak docker container and others specified in the [`docker-compose.yaml`](docker-compose.yaml).


## Features

### HMAC Pairwise subject with static sector identifier

This OIDC mapper can be used to pseudonymize one of the attributes of user like `id`, `username` for different clients and has the following features. For more details please check [here](./hmac-mapper/README.md)  

1. Field `sectorIdentifier` is mandatory
2. Field `sectorIdentifier` has to be still a valid URI but must not link to a JSON-File
3. If `sectorIdentifier` links to a JSON-File, it's content will be completely ignored

### Remove user on logout

It holds the customization to remove the user on logout or inactive users. For more details please check [here](./remove-user-on-logout/README.md).

### Whitelist Authenticator

This Authenticator checks valid combinations of Client ID and `KC_IDP_HINT` information.
For more details please check [here](./whitelist-authenticator/README.md).

### Whitelist Authenticator for Schools

This Authenticator checks valid combinations of Client ID and School ID information.
For more details please check [here](./whitelist-authenticator-schools/README.md).

### User Attribute Mapper with value mapping

This mapper imports user attributes with the ability to translate values.
It supports SAML- and OIDC- Identity Providers.
For more details please check [here](./multi-value-user-attribute-mapper/README.md).

### Acronym mapper

This mapper combines the first two letters of the first and last name to a lowercase acronym. 
For more details please check [here](./acronym-mapper/README.md).

### School ID mapper

Identity provider mapper regarding school IDs made up of a home organization and a school ID.
For more details please check [here](./school-mapper/README.md).

### Login event publisher

It holds the customization to publish a message in RABBITMQ on LOGIN event in KC. For more details please check [here](./login-event-publisher/README.md).

### Extension of User Info endpoint with school details

#### User Info Api

API - which defines the standard vidis field names.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-api/README.md).

#### User Info Requester

Identity provider mapper which calls a SANIS REST-API to collect user metadata.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-requester/README.md).

#### User Info Provider

OIDC Protocol mapper to add vidis user metadata to client tokens.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-provider/README.md).

#### Role based user info provider

OIDC Protocol mapper to add vidis user metadata to client tokens based on the role which is present in the user attributes.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-provider/README.md).

### Account Linking Authenticator

Authenticators required to enable the linking of accounts with only one authentication process
For more details please check [here](./account-linking-authenticator/README.md).

### License Connect Authenticator

Authenticator required to fetch the license associated with the user from license connect
For more details please check [here](./license-connect-authenticator/README.md).

## Contributing

To learn more about how you can contribute to this project, check out [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

FWUV-253 : ACR values in IDP request authenticator

README.md, after:

# FWU Keycloak extensions

[![Test and deploy](https://github.com/FWU-DE/fwu-kc-extensions/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/FWU-DE/fwu-kc-extensions/actions/workflows/main.yaml)

This Java x Maven project holds the Keycloak extensions for customizations of the [FWU](https://fwu.de/) Keycloak.
The goal of these extensions are to make the authentication more secure and anonymous.

## Setup for testing

Run the script `start_for_testing.sh` in the root directory to start the Keycloak.

This will start a Keycloak docker container and others specified in the [`docker-compose.yaml`](docker-compose.yaml).


## Features

### HMAC Pairwise subject with static sector identifier

This OIDC mapper can be used to pseudonymize one of the attributes of user like `id`, `username` for different clients and has the following features. For more details please check [here](./hmac-mapper/README.md)  

1. Field `sectorIdentifier` is mandatory
2. Field `sectorIdentifier` has to be still a valid URI but must not link to a JSON-File
3. If `sectorIdentifier` links to a JSON-File, it's content will be completely ignored

### Remove user on logout

It holds the customization to remove the user on logout or inactive users. For more details please check [here](./remove-user-on-logout/README.md).

### Whitelist Authenticator

This Authenticator checks valid combinations of Client ID and `KC_IDP_HINT` information.
For more details please check [here](./whitelist-authenticator/README.md).

### Whitelist Authenticator for Schools

This Authenticator checks valid combinations of Client ID and School ID information.
For more details please check [here](./whitelist-authenticator-schools/README.md).

### User Attribute Mapper with value mapping

This mapper imports user attributes with the ability to translate values.
It supports SAML- and OIDC- Identity Providers.
For more details please check [here](./multi-value-user-attribute-mapper/README.md).

### Acronym mapper

This mapper combines the first two letters of the first and last name to a lowercase acronym. 
For more details please check [here](./acronym-mapper/README.md).

### School ID mapper

Identity provider mapper regarding school IDs made up of a home organization and a school ID.
For more details please check [here](./school-mapper/README.md).

### Login event publisher

It holds the customization to publish a message in RABBITMQ on LOGIN event in KC. For more details please check [here](./login-event-publisher/README.md).

### Extension of User Info endpoint with school details

#### User Info Api

API - which defines the standard vidis field names.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-api/README.md).

#### User Info Requester

Identity provider mapper which calls a SANIS REST-API to collect user metadata.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-requester/README.md).

#### User Info Provider

OIDC Protocol mapper to add vidis user metadata to client tokens.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-provider/README.md).

#### Role based user info provider

OIDC Protocol mapper to add vidis user metadata to client tokens based on the role which is present in the user attributes.
For more details please check [here](./user-info-provider/README.md).

### Account Linking Authenticator

Authenticators required to enable the linking of accounts with only one authentication process
For more details please check [here](./account-linking-authenticator/README.md).

### License Connect Authenticator

Authenticator required to fetch the license associated with the user from license connect
For more details please check [here](./license-connect-authenticator/README.md).

### ACR values Authenticator

Authenticator required to append the acr_values to the request which is sent to the IDP
For more details please check [here](./acr-values-authenticator/README.md).

## Contributing

To learn more about how you can contribute to this project, check out [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md).
